Add plot description protocol mapping (#158)
ternaustralia/linkeddata-site: information-models/tern-ontology/dev-guide/dawe-protocol/plot-description-module/plot-description-mapping.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Plot Description protocol mapping

The mapping of the source app data to the TERN Ontology on this page is applicable to the [Plot Description](https://linked.data.gov.au/def/nrm/1ff9e97c-3bdd-44c9-bdd3-401fa31c0b32) protocol.

Mentions of observable properties should refer to [plot-description/overview](/information-models/tern-ontology/dev-guide/dawe-protocol/plot-description-module/overview) for the feature type and value type information.

## Conceptual modelling

The Plot Description module records data about the site for the following feature types:

- climate
- landform
- land surface
- plant community
- vegetation stratum

These observations are recorded for each site during a site visit.

> A NVIS Level 5 description will be automatically generated based on entered vegetation information. The value of `structural formation` aligns with NVIS and is based on `growth form`, `height class`, and `cover`.

Author: ```suggestion
An NVIS Level 5 description will be automatically generated based on the entered vegetation information. The value of `structural formation` aligns with NVIS and is generated from the `growth form`, `height class`, and `cover` values.
```

> The value of `slope class` is automatically generated from a list of 8 values once `slope` is entered – this information can help determine `landform element` (generated based on `slope` (degrees) value).

Author: ```suggestion
The `slope` value is used to automatically calculate the slope class and help determine the `landform element`.
```

#### `slpoe`

The `slope` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'slope'.

#### `slpoe_class`

The `slope_class` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'slope class'.

#### `aspect`

The `aspect` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'aspect'.

#### `landform_pattern`

The `landform_pattern` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'landform pattern'.

#### `landform_element`

The `landform_element` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'landform element'.

#### `outcrop_lithology`

The `outcrop_lithology` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'rock outcrop lithology'.

#### `surface_strew_lithology`

The `surface_strew_lithology` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'surface strew lithology'.

#### `surface_strew_size`

The `surface_strew_size` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'surface strew size'.

#### `disturbance`

The `disturbance` key maps to a `tern:Observation` with the observable property 'disturbance type'.

> ### Mapping plot location measurements

Author: ```suggestion
### Mapping plot visit measurements
```
